---
tags: fiction
type: book
author: Haruki Murakami
title: South of the Border, West of the Sun
---

# South of the Border, West of the Sun
by [[Haruki Murakami]]

## Highlights
> But I didn't understand then. That I could hurt somebody so badly she would never recover. That a person can, just by living damage another human being beyond repair.

> A simple change of scenery can bring about powerful shifts in the flow of time and emotions: exactly what had happened to Shimamoto and me. We might have been very close, but moving down the road a couple of miles was all it took for us to go our separate ways.

> I hurt myself deeply, though at the time I had no idea how deeply. I should have learned many things from that experience, but when I look back on it, all I gained was one single, undeniable fact. That ultimately I am a person who can do evil. I never consciously tried to hurt anyone, yet good intentions notwithstanding, when necessity demanded, I could become completely self centred, even cruel. I was the kind of person who could, using some plausible excuse, inflict on a person I cared for a wound that would never heal.

> Maybe I've lost the chance to ever be a decent human being. The mistakes I'd committed - maybe they were part of my very make-up an inescapable part of my being.

> Of course I love them. Very much. And I want to take care of them. But something's missing. I have a family, a job, and no complaints about either. You could say I'm happy. Yet I've known ever since I met you again that something is missing. The important question is what is missing. Something's lacking. In me and my life. And that part of me is always hungry, always thirsting. Neither my wife nor my children can fill that gap. In the whole world, there's only one person who can do that. You. Only now, when that thirst is satisfied, do I realize how empty I was. And how I've been hungering, thirsting, for so many years. I can't go back to that kind of world.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Haruki Murakami]: <../authors/Haruki Murakami.md> "Haruki Murakami"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
