---
tags: fiction
type: book
author: Haruki Murakami
title: Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman
---

# Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman
by [[Haruki Murakami]]

## Highlights
> Your work should be an act of love, not a marriage of convenience.

> He preferred mature women to young girls. In most cases, it was easier to break up with an older woman.

> In our late-stage capitalist world, it’s hard to trust anything that’s free.

> Everyone is looking for something from someone.

> What I now need most of all is time.

> Death is not the opposite of life, but a part of it.

> In terms of sheer personal satisfaction, his life was one of the more successful ones.

> What they want is for somebody to be interested in them beyond the – in a sense – static framework of “girlfriend” or “wife”. That’s the most fundamental rule in all this.

> Just as every bookshelf has a long-unread book and every cupboard has a long-unworn shirt, every wedding reception has a poor aunt.

> Best of all were our quiet talks in bed after sex. I held her naked body close, and she’d curl up in my arms and we’d whisper secrets in our own private language.

> We were both married, with no major complaints about our married lives. We loved our spouses and respected them. Still, this was on the order of a minor miracle – running across someone you express your feelings to so clearly, so completely. Most people go their entire lives without meeting a person like that. It would have been a mistake to label this ‘love’. It was more like total empathy.

> For some reason, things that grabbed me were always things I didn’t understand.

> Once you make up your mind to get rid of something, there’s very little you can’t discard.

> Even if he never saw Kirie again, this feeling would stay with him for ever. Somewhere in his body – perhaps in the marrow of his bones – he would continue to feel her absence.

> There are only three ways to get along with a girl: one, shut up and listen to what she has to say; two, tell her you like what she’s wearing; and three, treat her to really good food. Easy, eh? If you do all that and still don’t get the results you want, better give up.

> I’ve been excited every day since I met you,’ she said. ‘I haven’t felt this way in a long time. It was so good – I felt like a teenager again. So I don’t mind. I went to the beauty salon, went on a quick diet, bought some Italian lingerie.

> What I wanted was to be one with her, with nothing coming between us. To possess her, to be possessed.

> The most frightening thing in the world is our own self.

> Sometimes think that people’s hearts are like deep wells. Nobody knows what’s at the bottom. All you can do is guess from what comes floating to the surface every once in a while.

> He sometimes wondered if she had become involved with him just so that she could cry in someone’s arms. Maybe she can’t cry alone, and that’s why she needs me.

> People think of all kinds of things at three in the morning. We all do. That’s why we each have to work out our own way of fighting it off.

> When I get depressed, I start to clean. Even if it’s two or three in the morning. I wash the dishes, wipe down the stove, mop the floor, bleach the dishcloths, organise my desk drawers, iron every shirt in sight,’ he said, stirring his drink with his finger. ‘I do that till I’m exhausted, then I have a drink and go to sleep. In the morning I get up and by the time I’m putting on my socks I can’t even remember what it was I was thinking about.

> I’ve always thought I was a boring person,’ he began. ‘I’ve never been the type who could just cut loose and have a good time. It was as if I could always sense a boundary around me and I did my best not to step over the line. As though I was following a well-laid-out highway with signs telling me which were the exits, warning me when a bend was coming up, when not to pass. Follow the directions, I reckoned, and life would turn out OK. People praised me for toeing the line, and when I was little I was sure everybody else was doing the same thing as me. But I soon found out that wasn’t the case.

## Contents
* Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman
* Birthday Girl
* New York Mining Disaster
* Aeroplane: Or, How He Talked to Himself as If Reciting Poetry
* The Mirror
* A Floklore for My Generation: A Prehistory of Late-Stage Capitalism
* Hunting Knife
* A Perfect Day for Kangaroos
* Dabchick
* Man-Eating Cats
* A 'Poor Aunt' Story
* Nausea 1979
* The Seventh Man
* The Year of Spaghetti
* Tony Takitani
* The Rise and Fall of Sharpie Cakes
* The Ice Man
* Crabs
* Firefly
* Chance Traveller
* Hanalie Bay
* Where I'm Likely to Find It
* The Kidney-Shaped Stone That Moves Every Day
* A Shinagawa Monkey

## Bibliography
* Gone with the Wind

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Haruki Murakami]: <../authors/Haruki Murakami.md> "Haruki Murakami"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"