---
tags: non-fiction
type: book
author: Kenneth Anderson
title: The Black Panther Of Sivanipalli
---

# The Black Panther Of Sivanipalli
by [[Kenneth Anderson]]

## Highlights
> Is it not strange what the human mind may think of when it is forced to be idle?

> Elephants appear to have an instinctive dislike for white objects. For this very reason milestones and furlong stones along roads in elephant-infested areas are painted black, for such objects, if white, would be immediately uprooted and flung away as soon as an elephant caught sight of them. For the same reason it would be unsafe to dress in white and roam in an elephant forest, for it would only invite attack.

> Incidentally, none of the snake venoms are poisonous if swallowed, so that there is no fear of secondary symptoms due to this sucking-out of poisoned blood.

> In the folds of the hills, and along the beds of the myriad watercourses that tumble downhill, clumps of trees and matted jungle have sprung up. These are commonly called ‘sholas’, or isolated islands of forest, surrounded by open, grassy areas or outcrops of forbidding rock.

## Contents
* A Panther's Way
* The Man-eating Panther of the Yellagiri Hills
* Old Munuswamy and the Panther of the Magadi
* The Balck Panther of Sivanipalli
* Snakes and Other Jungle Creatures
* The Killer from Hyderabad
* The Big Bull Bison of Gedesal
* The Maned Tiger of Chordi
* Man-eater of Pegepalyam

## Notes
* A leopard and a panther are one and the same creature. For no good reason that I know of, in India we more often call them panthers.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Kenneth Anderson]: <../authors/Kenneth Anderson.md> "Kenneth Anderson"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"